Instructions for Running the Image Processing Script
1. Setup
Prerequisites
Ensure you have Python installed on your machine. You can download it from the official Python website.
During installation, make sure to check the box to "Add Python to PATH."
Create a Virtual Environment (Optional)
Creating a virtual environment is recommended for managing dependencies.

Open a command prompt or terminal.
Navigate to your project directory:
bash
Copy code
cd path_to_your_project_directory
Create a virtual environment:
bash
Copy code
python -m venv venv
Activate the virtual environment:
On Windows:
bash
Copy code
venv\Scripts\activate
On macOS/Linux:
bash
Copy code
source venv/bin/activate
2. Dependencies
You will need to install several packages to run the script successfully. Use the following commands:

bash
Copy code
pip install opencv-python
pip install opencv-python-headless  # Optional, for GUI features
pip install pandas
pip install numpy
pip install pillow
pip install mtcnn
Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable (Windows Only)
If you are using Windows, ensure that you have the Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable installed. You can download it from the official Microsoft site.

3. Excel File Template
The script requires an Excel file containing student data formatted in the following way:

Excel File Structure
File Name: students_data.xlsx (You can name it differently, but ensure to update the code accordingly)
Sheet Name: Sheet (or update the code with the name you choose)
Columns: Ensure the following columns are present, without leading or trailing spaces:
Admission_Number: The unique admission number for each student (as a string).
Name: The full name of the student.
Class: The class or grade of the student.
Section: The section the student belongs to.
Example Data
Admission_Number	Name	Class	Section
123456	Amit	VI	A
789012	Akash	VI	B
Notes:
Ensure that the admission numbers are unique.
Save the Excel file in a location accessible to the script and update the excel_file variable in the code with the correct path.
4. Running the Script
Make sure your virtual environment is activated (if applicable).
Place the images you want to process in the specified input_dir.
Run the script using Python:
bash
Copy code
python your_script_name.py
Replace your_script_name.py with the actual name of your Python file.
5. Output
The processed images will be saved in the specified output_dir.
A log file (log.txt) will be generated to track the processing status of each image.
Any images that could not be processed will be listed in the console output.
6. Deactivate the Virtual Environment (Optional)
After completing your work, you can deactivate the virtual environment by running:

bash
Copy code
deactivate
